# Image Server MDCS Tools
This directory contains the MDCS structure for image service management. 
MDCS is an Esri framework for generating mosaic datasets using consistent configurations, 
and publishing them to image services. 

The asf_services directory contains the full MDCS structure. The directory structure is 
set, and while additional directories can be added, the core MDCS directories should not
be renamed, moved or deleted. 

## AID
The AID directory contains the tools for managing image services, as well as the
.zmd files, similar to service definition files, which are used to publish services
to an ArcGIS Image Dedicated server. The .zmd files are output to project-specific
subdirectories.

## batchFiles
The batchFiles directory contains the batch files (.bat) for running the MDCS workflow. 
It also contains python wrapper scripts (.py) that generate a set of batch files, 
run them, and publish the output mosaic datasets to image services. 

## Documentation
This directory contains Esri's documentation on the MDCS workflow.

## Logs
This directory contains the logs from every MDCS run. The logs are tagged by the 
configuration file used to run the process, along with a date/time stamp. 
Note that batch files often have more than one command line, so multiple logs can
be output from a single batch file run.

## MD
This directory contains the mosaic datasets generated by the MDCS process. They are
output to project-specific subdirectories.

## Parameter
This directory contains most of the meat of the MDCS workflow. 

* ### Boundary
    Contains shapefiles or feature classes used to clip the final output of a 
    mosaic dataset
  
* ### Config
    Contains the configuration files that define the format of the mosaic datasets.
    These files are some of the most important in the MDCS workflow. They are in 
    xml format, and the tags correspond to specific calls listed in the batch file.
  
* ### Credentials
    We do not make use of this credentials template. See the 
    [asf_services README](asf_services/README.md) for more information.
  
* ### Json
    Under-the-hood Esri files

* ### RasterFunctionTemplates
    Raster Function Template files that can be published with image services to 
    provide service-specific visualizations or functionality.
  
* ### Rastertype
    Raster configuration files to describe transformations of rasters when added to 
    a mosaic dataset. For example, the Composite_VV_VH.art.xml describes the method
    for combining single-band polarization rasters (VV and VH RTC products) into 
    2-band composite rasters for use in the RTC services.

## PixelCache
Default location for pixel caching.

## scratch
Temporary storage for intermediate products.

## scripts
The python scripts called when using the MDCS batch files. 

- MDCS.py contains the standard functions called in the batch file, 
  which reference the settings in the configuration files
  
- MDCS_UC.py is where custom user-developed functions are contained. 
  These functions also can be called in a batch file command, but use the full function
  name rather than the two-letter code used to reference functions in the MDCS.py script.
  





